And this is how we are going to test if the HPCL query that we have in the GPA repository works well.
So let's open up repository for a moment.
I will go to my users repository and here I have a method that is called find users with email and in
width and it uses GPC query that is defined above the method.
Now because this method has a query defined above it.
The method name does not need to be exactly find users with email ending with it doesn't need to follow
this pattern that we use to create query methods.
And you can give this method any name you like.
All right, so let's write the test method that will test this method that uses a query above.
And I will go back to my test course and we'll create a new test method.
So we're going to test find users with email and with method for a condition.
When it's given email domain, then it should return all users that use this given domain name and I
will create a range act and assert sections.
And by the time this test method executes, our database table will already have two users recorded.
This is because in the setup method that is annotated with before each annotation, we create and persist
to users.
Now both of these users have email address that ends with test dotcom.
And to make my test method more accurate, I will persist one more user.
But I will do it in the range section of my new test method.
So I'll first prepare a new user entity.
And we'll populated with some sample data.
Has.
Email address.
I will use a different email address that ends with gmail.com.
Something like this and I will persist this new user.
Next, I will define a variable that will hold the target email domain name.
For example, string call it email domain name and the value will be at gmail.com.
So this is my target email domain name.
And now in the ACT section, I will invoke my method under test and I will use this domain name to query
for users that use this email address.
So I will use user repository and I will call my method under test, which is find users with email,
address and in width and I will use email domain name as a method parameter.
If everything is okay, this will return me a list of users.
And I will call this list just users.
Let's impact list.
And in the assert section I will validate this result.
So because I have persisted only one user that uses gmail dot com, I expect there to be only one user
in the list, so I will validate it with the following assertion.
I will use assert equals as expected value, I will use just one and actual value is the size of my
users list like this.
And if these two values are not equal, I will display a message, something like there should be only
one user in the list.
And with the next assertion, I will check if the user that is in the list does indeed use email address
that ends with the target domain name.
And to do that I will use a third through and I will first get user from the users list and now I will
get their email address and now I will check if this email address ends with the target email domain
name like this.
Okay.
So now I think we are ready to run this test method and see if it works.
Let's try.
And it passes.
Now let's try failing it.
I will change the value of target domain name.
So we have a user in a database that uses email address with gmail.com.
I will try searching for a user that uses live dot com.
Let's see if it works.
And it fails because it didn't find any users.
And the error message that there should be only one user and the least expected value one, but the
actual value is zero users that were found.
Now let's try using domain names that we have.
We have two users with domain name add test dot com.
Let's see if our test method passes now.
And it fails again because we have two users in the list.
There should be only one user in the list.
The expected result is one, but the actual number of users that were found is two, which is correct.
We have two users with email address that ends with dot com.
So let's make it pass again.
I will change this dot com to gmail.com and run my test one more time.
And it passes, which tells me that the query that I have provided above the method name does work and
it does return correct number of users.